# ForeignWars
#I decided to track every international war that the United States has been a part of. This database goes as far back as the Revolutionary war. The majority of the database revolves around fifteen major wars that have happened since the Revolutionary war. It includes key information that historians, educators, or students would need in order to learn about international wars the United States was involved in. Notable fields include start and end dates, battles, war leaders, countries involved, allies and enemies to the United States, etc.

The logical design of the us_foreign_wars database contains seven different tables with a total of eight different relationships between each other. The ​basic_war_information​ table acts as the overarching table with the high-level information regarding each war placed in the database. This table has a one-to-many relationship with the ​battle_results, us_war_allies, us_war_enemies,​ and ​war_leaders​ tables. The countries table has a one-to-many relationship with the ​us_war_allies, us_war_enemies, war_leaders,​ and ​military_branches​ tables. Furthermore, ​us_war_allies, us_war_enemies,​ and ​war_leaders,​ act as linking tables to their respective relationships within the database. The logic behind the database was designed this way as to avoid redundancies between tables, as well as, provide succinct information that can be of aid to whoever chooses to use the database. 

The physical database is named us_foreign_wars, and provides the culmination of all the tables, ERD design, and views/queries that make up this database. Each table provides sample data that display an idea of what each table would provide for its users. The queries, presented as views, also give a scope to potential questions that could be answered if someone were curious to figure out various pieces of information from the database we created. In addition, the database also has a backup SQL file in case of file corruption.

The sample data within the database comes from numerous credible sources. Since there was no singular website that provided all of the data we needed to populate the tables, the bulk of the work for this final phase of the project went into locating credible information and creating insert statements in order to place the data into their respective tables. The information for the tables came from educational websites such as: Columbia University’s Law School online library and University of Michigan’s online material for international wars. Other credible sources include: PBS, World Atlas, arcGIS, Encyclopedia Britannica, and Council on Foreign Relations.
